one, two, three, four!
Rev up your engines!
It's time for the Scotty Kilmer Channel
ok, it's happened to all of us, you're
driving on the road, and all of a sudden
you smell a burning smoldering smell
coming from under the hood, now of course
there could be lots of things, but most
of the time it's oil leaking, and then
getting on the exhaust, and then make it
a little burning smell, now in this case
we'll take off the stupid beauty cover, and
we'll look at the valve cover gasket,
we'll see there's oil leaking all the
way under it, and when we go under the
car, we can see oils dripped the whole way
down, starting at the top dripped all the
way down, so it's time for new valve
cover gaskets, and as you can see here,
the oils got on the exhaust pipe and
of course this gets really hot when the
cars run, and then that's where most of
the smell will be coming from, now in the
case of this v6 Lexus the front valve
cover is pretty easy to get to, but,
behind the front cover gasket is the
back cover gasket, inside here we got to
take the hole intake of the car off, in
order to get to it, and change that back
gasket, now the gasket kit doesn't cost
that much, but there's a lot of Labor
involved, so let's get going, first you stick a
drain pan under it, to catch anything that drips,
then we'll grab this radiator clamp and
take the hose out of the way, then we'll get
this old dish pan and stick it here, so you
can put all the nuts and bolts in and it
won't get lost, then we'll take out the
ignition coils, it just pop right off, you
got wiggle them a little, and then remove
all the bolts, that hold the valve cover in
place, now here's a trick I learned years
ago, get a pry bar, put it on the metal on
the head, and then under the valve cover
here and pry it a little, you can see the
whole thing starts coming up, they stick
on pretty stuck, and here it is,
too bad the backsides going to be a lot
harder than this easily front side, now
this Lexus gasket is great, it's got
little ribs in it, so when you put it in
place, it actually snaps and holds itself
in, so when you put it back together, you
don't need to put any glue on it, because
it'll stay on, since the ridges hold it
in the little groove, then the cover just
goes back on, give it a little push, and then
tighten the valve cover
gasket bolts, make them snug from the
middle and work your way out till you
got the outside ones tightened, and then
once you made them all snug, go back and
make sure they're good and tight, now
these valve cover bolts pretty much up
stops on them, so once they hit the metal, you
can't turn them any more, you just give them a
little bit of a pull, just to make sure
it's as tight as they go, and leave it at
that, then we put all the coils back on,
and now comes the hard part, we can't
check the intake manifold and all that
crap off, to get to the back valve cover
gasket, first we'll take the airbox off,
unbolt all this and pull it out of the
way,
it will come apart in pieces, and take
this off, then we'll get the airbox out of the
way, then we'll take the throttle off, you
just remove the four bolts and take that
out of the way, and on the backside
here, you'll see this little bolt, that
holds it to the engine, got take that
little block off too, or you'll never get the
top off, there's another one on the other
side we got to get off, now as long as
we're dealing with hard-to-get-to bolts,
the one on the backside here is a 14
millimeter, that's almost impossible to
get to, so I've got one of these swivel
head sockets that'll help take it off,
it's invisible to see inside here, so
basically, you feeling with your fingers
get the wrench on and start
pulling, and with enough yelling and swearing and
cutting your hands, out it comes, the
first time I ever did one of these, I had
one hell of a time trying to figure out
where that stuff was, but with that
special wrench, I got it off and it's not
that bad, you really need to get a wrench
like that though, then while your in there,
you'll see there's a PCV hose, we have to
pull that out of the way, because that's
connected to the intake tube, then we
take off the wiring assembly that's in
the way the bolts, then take the bolts that hold
the intake manifold on, then we pull
the intake manifold out of the way, and
we can finally access the bolts to take
the cover off, just like the front, you pry
it off, just like the other one, then we
got that off, we put the new gasket on
the other side, and if you notice, this
one is blue, because it's a special
silicone gasket, since that one's so hard
to get to, the replacement one is
our quality, so it won't leak is fast, then
of course, we bolt it all back on like
the other side, but I'm not going film
all that, because I already showed the front
one it, would be too boring, and it's
getting ready for a spring storm here, so
I gotta get this done before I get
rained on, and filming slows me down, so
the next time your valve covers start
leaking and you get a smoldering smell
inside your car, now you know how to fix
it, and remember if you've got any car
questions just visit the Scotty Kilmer
channel and I'll answer them as soon as
this Kookaburra is done laughing.